So in the last lectures, we improved our recipe section a lot with the service,
now let's work on the shopping list side, on the shopping list service.
This service is empty right now,
now here's your challenge,
fill it some life. It would be nice if this service could manage our shopping list, so our list of ingredients,
maybe you even add the addIngredient method here so that you can add ingredients using this service
too,
we already got this add functionality here in the shopping list component.
It shouldn't live here anymore though and with that, we would take a huge step forward.
So your chance to pause the video and try this on your own, thereafter we'll solve it together.
So were you successful?
Let's fill this shopping service with some life.
For this, I'll first of all copy my ingredients here and add it here as a property to the service
and of course I need to import ingredient from the shared folder, from the ingredient model there.
Now with that, we got the data in here and I will make this private. Now just like in the shopping,
excuse me, in the recipe service,
I will add a getIngredients method here where I will return my ingredients but only a copy of it with
the slice method, so that I can't access the original array stored in this service.
With that, I can go back to my shopping list component and I will set this to an uninitialized property
but I can inject my shopping list service.
Now again the question is, where should we provide it? Now for now,
we can provide it here in the shopping list component and therefore it would also be available in the
shopping edit component but actually later I also want to access it from my recipe section.
That is why I will actually provide it in app module and here, I will add it to this providers array therefore, shopping
list service.
Make sure to also add the import at the top here.
So now we will be able to use a service application-wide including in other services and I exactly need
this behavior because we will soon use it in another service.
So back to the shopping list component then, we can now inject a shopping list service and I will bind it
to a property named slService,
of course you can choose a different name which will be of type shopping list service and you need to
add the import pointing to the shopping list.service
file. With that in ngOnInit because you should do all tasks which required a bit more
heavy lifting or in general as a good practice,
all initializations in ngOnInit.
Therefore here, I will simply assign my ingredients to whatever the shopping list service returns me
if I call getIngredients here.
With this in place, if we save this and we go to a shopping list area, this is still working so that's
great,
now let's make sure that we can also add items. So I'll add the addIngredient
method here and I know that I will receive an ingredient here of type ingredient and all I want to
do then is I want to access my ingredients and push this new ingredient on it,
so here, ingredient. Now if we go to the shopping edit component,
right now we're emitting an event with our own ingredient. We no longer need to do this so we can get
rid of the event, of output and of the imports here related to this,
we can also go to the shopping-list.component.html file and remove our listener where we listen to this
event and in the shopping-list.component.ts file, we can get rid of the onIngredientAdded method
because we'll now do this in the service.
So back to shopping edit component where we create a new ingredient, here I want to use the service and
for this, I will access my service so I will inject slService here,
like this,
make sure to add the import of course and in onAddItem,
I'll add slService and add an ingredient to it,
this new ingredient here.
Now if we save this and now try adding a new item here, bread one, we don't see it but we also don't get
an error.
Now there is something wrong here and we will find out what and fix it in the next lecture.